## Facilities Committee Report

Meeting was held May 19th

The committee discussed many topics. The following is listed in discussion order.


* VP Berte discussed the newly formed Health, Safety, and Reopening Committee. A standing   committee meeting Tuesdays at 9:30

* On ventilation, we heard of a study being done. 

* We heard of a break down on space requirements for classrooms

* Jonathan Peters raised the issue of phasing (bringing in more  and more starting  with the easier  such  as research   labs or residence halls). We heard Mel Pipe is leading a committee that will  meet with the research  committee to discuss this. Both Mel and Dan McCloskey have been invited to the opening up committee.

* We heard  that supplies through Grainger and  elswhere were difficult to findi.

* We heard that in March an outside company did a deep cleaning. We relayed a  suggestion to post  cleaning  schedules and routines. Valky described the  importance  of such communications  to  the  community.

* We heard how crews are working in groups of 2

* We heard 2 plumbers have been hired; hot  water is  now  restored  in all  buildings

*  The issue of brown water  is  known; flushing  will occur  in June and before re-opening

* Electricians  are addressing outdoor lighting issues

* Kitchen ceiling is being aeddressed

* Jonathan Peters shared his concerns about the Auxiliary Services Corp funding, as  they have lost revenues in the several millions.

* Several  projects are still ongoing: substation; fire  alarm; 1M roof replacement; sidewalk repair. These have health and safety motivations.

* We asked about windows; tthe   inventory if finished. While many open, those that don't are problematic as parts aren't available.

* We discussed transportation both funding and space concerns. The issue of peak usage is a big problem,

* We talked about parking

* We talked about preparing facilities for staff usage (library, registrar, ...)

* Alan Zimmerman and others expressed frustration with no decision on
  fall instruction. Jonathan Peters and others are hopeful for partial
  instruction on campus. (A stovepipiing approach where things that
  can be opened up are.)  A meeting on Monday of CUNY Chief Operating
  Officers was held with similar concerns expressed.







## Agenda items that were sent out for discussion

### plans for future reopening of campus spaces.

-  Discuss measures to ensure the safety of staff in the various service areas, where we come in direct contact with students, in preparation of returning to work.
- plexiglass barriers  to  be installed where initeraction is required (e.g. at the regisitrars window...)
- Customer service for many units of the college, a whole separate issue. 
- PPE provided for everyone (masks, gloves, sanitizer dispensers)
- published schedule of cleanings and deep cleanings
- Ensure hot water in bathrooms works; ensure sanitary bathrooms
- Food facilities need to be upgraded for safety concerns
- ventilation in rooms needs improvement; 
- windows in classrooms should be functional
- podiums in classrooms need to be sanitized between usage
- There is a lot going around on professional listserves regarding 'materials' that are handed by students (going to their homes) and are returned (e.g., books, laptops) and how to disinfect.
- Are expenses  expected  to be reiimbursed through  the   CARES  act? If not, has budget been readjusted?
- Discussion  about mixed  hybrid  courses  needs more  technology. Can facilities  staff


### transparency  on reconfiguring is requested


### transportation needs to adapt to social distancing

- parking areas need to adapt to social distancinig
- bus  passenger density

### The Financial Impacts of closing Student Housing 

- Auxiliary Services stands to lose 2/3 of their annual income on house - or about \$4,000,000.  
- Potential to reopen student housing facility ASAP.
- Financial Condition of Auxiliary Services Corporation - Parking and Food Services

### More  digital

- prioritizing digital when we can- e.g., scanning, calculators, books, videos.  
- Concerns for libraries in terms of 'lending' that might also affect other departments. 
- needs for online resources and staffing.

### State has  paused most all construction. How  does this   impact  CSI? (Sidewalk  project,  hardscape, others)




