5/12 email
----
May 12, 2020

Dear Fellow Senators,

As the elected adjunct representatives to this body, we are writing on behalf of all of CSI’s adjuncts in light of President Fritz’s recently announced plan to slash the adjunct budgets by 35%. While we are aware of the budget difficulties the campus has been going through and the budget cuts it is facing, we strongly believe that solving this issues largely on the backs of the adjunct labor force is wrong and illogical, especially given the lack of clarity on budgetary issues and final enrollment numbers. As such, we are asking that this body amplify its efforts to protect the adjunct workforce and also to investigate the overall budget issues that have plagued this campus.

The timing of this cut announcement is both highly questionable since they are being made, not at the direction of CUNY, but rather in anticipation of budget cut. While it’s true that reappointment letters need to go out by May 15th, those letters are not binding and clearly state that appointments are contingent on factors including enrollment and budget. “This appointment is subject to sufficiency of registration, changes in curriculum, and financial ability. You will be notified of the specifics of your assignment in a subsequent communication.” While we believe the campus needs to be honest with adjuncts that there may be cuts coming, preemptively making these cuts now, because of these letters, is a false choice.

Moreover, the administration’s plan is to cut staff, not sections. Which in and of itself is illogical. We know that the large numbers of adjuncts who work across campus are here because there is a growing need for their labor. The campus’ enrollment, workload restrictions and class caps all require the need for a large adjunct workforce. So, it remains unclear how the administration plans to overcome this hurdle. Do they intend to break the contract and have full time faculty teach above the collectively bargained workload? Do they plan to harm students by drastically increasing caps? If this campus is trying to increase enrollment and retention, these steps clearly harm those efforts. Of course they can always return to adjunct labor, but if that is the plan, these preemptive cuts create the very real (and completely unnecessary) possibility that chairs will be left scrambling at the last minute to staff classes. Perhaps enrollments will be down this fall and these steps won’t be necessary, but that is currently unclear and historical precedence generally has enrollments increasing during economic downturns.
In considering the issue of enrollment and its impact upon this decision there are a number of factors in play. As it stands now enrollment has only just begun. Students just started enrolling in April and many are holding off until this trying semester is at an end and they have a clearer picture of where they stand academically. In addition, many students are just finding out about the credit/no credit and how they will be eligible to take this opportunity if they so choose. This will not occur until the semester is over and grades are in. Before students opt into the policy, they need to be academically and financially advised in order to determine if credit/no credit is their best option. As we know, they have twenty days to exercise this route, which will take many of them to the end of June.

Another factor that needs to be considered is a possible surge in readmits. Many are already returning amidst this crisis and economic downturn to continue their education and create future opportunities for themselves. A spike in student readmits is often seen during economic downturns as part of the overall uptick in enrollment.

Another factor in enrollment that will greatly impact the number of students is Freshman. Incoming freshman have only been going through the intake and enrollment process for a week and there are many waiting for the opportunity to begin the admittance process. We still have five months to process all of them. These Freshman will be the first-class experiencing college in the post-COVID world. Many of them are eager to connect with the college and find a new home considering their senior year of high school experience has been essentially wiped out. Their anticipation of being part of a new academic  community and look to the future is why we need to have faculty waiting to greet them and give the wonderful educational experience CSI is known for. These requested cuts focusing on the teaching faculty are a direct assault/attack on the lifeblood of this college – the ability to teach and engage students in a product manor in appropriately sized classes.

Finally, we have to look at the question: What is Congress going to do? There has been much talk and posturing in Washington, regarding stimulus to the states. As we know Congress is considering a new bailout focusing in state and local government. We also know that this process is going to play out over a significant period of time and which will create further uncertainty. It is for this reason, that is irresponsible to make such drastic cuts now and not wait to see how all these factors play out.

At this time, we do not know what the final enrollment and budget picture will be. In the end cuts to adjunct staffing, or other parts of the bargaining unit may be unavoidable and perhaps warranted, but we ask that we all work to resist making any cuts to adjuncts or other staff until it becomes clear that there is no other way and that a plan is in place to protect the integrity of the contract and maintain the best conditions for the students. In our view neither of those conditions have been met at this time.

Thank You,

Peter Galati and Victor Miller
Adjunct Representatives​
