7/18 email
----
July 18th will be powerful! Thank you to those who have already sent an RSVP to join the Caravan Through CUNY Communities in person or on Zoom! We will have hundreds of members in cars or on bikes and many more on Zoom. On Friday we will send the Zoom registration to all who have RSVP'd. If you have not yet RSVP'd please sign up here to attend in person or on zoom. And, if you're home participating on Zoom and we happen to be passing by where you live, please give a wave or a shout-out to the caravan!
 
We're aiming to reach out to CUNY communities and show CUNY that we are more organized than ever, so your participation is essential!! On Zoom, we will show live footage of the FOUR borough caravans!! Plus, guest speakers will include members speaking on issues such as use of annual leave time, Research Foundation and adjunct layoffs, and returning to on-site work and a Budget Justice Coalition partner.
 
For those who are participating in the caravan, all participants must wear a mask at all times and remain socially distant. Here are the routes in each borough. Please print route and bring it with you!
Bronx 
Brooklyn 
Queens 
Staten Island 
Experienced cyclists who are committed to wearing masks and maintaining social distance are welcome to attend but in Staten Island and the Bronx we are not organizing a bike contingent so in those boroughs, cyclists should stay at the rear of the caravan. Please read these further details for biking participants in advance of the event!
 
Further instructions and ideas! But be sure to RSVP if you haven't already
!  
Post signs on your car BEFORE arriving. Signs on the roof can be seen from apartments above.
Take photos of your car and post on social media!
We'll do our best to stay together but, if your car is separated, try to catch up and find the noise!
Drive with your blinkers on, HONK, have fun and be #unionstrong!
SOCIAL MEDIA is CRUCIAL! At our last action, Zoom participants caused our issues to trend to second on Twitter in NYC! Let's try to get to #1 on July 18th!
Tag
▪          @PSC_CUNY
▪          @CUNY
▪          @NyGovCuomo
▪          @AndreaSCousins
▪          @CarlHeastie
Use Hashtags:
▪          #CUNYSummerOfStruggle
▪          #CutCovidNotCUNY
▪          #MakeBillionairesPay
▪          #AdjunctsHoldUpCUNY
▪          #FundCUNYNow
 
Hashtags can also be used for signs, and here are a few more suggestions:
NYC Needs CUNY
Quality Ed = Funded CUNY
Honk To Save CUNY
Save Jobs - Fund CUNY
New Deal 4 CUNY
Shame on CUNY! - Stop Layoffs!
 
See you Saturday, in person or on Zoom!
 
Solidarity & power,
 
Andrea Vásquez, PSC First Vice President
Luke Elliott-Negri, PSC University-wide Officer
 
