Vigil for Lives Lost and Those Threatened, Thurs., Aug. 13, 3-4 PM
Sign up to participate on Zoom or in person, Thurs., Aug. 13, 3-4 PM.

PSC’s Fightback Thursday Committee is organizing a vigil with a simple but powerful message:  "We have lost people, and CUNY has an obligation to protect the safety and health on the job of all of its workers." The socially distant in-person vigil will be at the Graduate Center (365 Fifth Ave. at 34th St.). Fill out the RSVP form on the PSC website to receive the meeting ID and passcode for the Zoom event. During the vigil we will read names of our PSC colleagues who have died and hear from those whose health is threatened by the loss and/or lack of health insurance.

Round the Clock Fight to Save Lives, Save Jobs, Save CUNY, Wed., Aug. 26
Sign up to participate in a union-wide mass action, Wed., Aug. 26.

Nearly 1,000 PSC members have already pledged to take part in the union’s 24-hour action of resistance on the first day of CUNY classes, Wednesday, August 26. But we need every PSC member engaged in the fight for racial justice and a New Deal for CUNY.

The marathon day of online and in-person programming will begin 8 AM on August 26. The schedule for the day is still in formation; it will be posted on the PSC website and sent to members. Hour by hour, we will hear from PSC chapters, CUNY students, allies and champions for free quality public higher education. Throughout the day, we will celebrate the achievements of the #CUNYSummerofStruggle and demonstrate our collective power and commitment to take more militant action if CUNY fails to meet our demands to Save Lives, Save Jobs, Save CUNY. During evening “prime time” the PSC and our coalition partners will launch an organizing and legislative campaign to fight for racial justice by enacting a New Deal for CUNY. Sign up here to participate.

Sign Up for Phone-Banking
PSC chapters and organizing staff are coordinating almost daily phone banks as part of the union’s plan to contact all 30,000 CUNY faculty and staff about the campaign to Save Lives, Save Jobs, Save CUNY. One-on-one conversations are how we check in with each other, identify workplace issues and build solidarity. In this time of a pandemic virus, mass layoffs, deepening austerity and racist state violence, building connections between union members is more important than ever. Every member of our unit deserves to be heard about their health and safety concerns and the threats to their livelihood and working conditions. And every CUNY worker is needed in the fight to Save Lives, Save Jobs, Save CUNY. Sign up here to volunteer to call your colleagues starting as soon as possible.

Expanded Tuition Remission for Graduate Student Employees
In the last contract round, the PSC won four semesters of Level 3 tuition remission for graduate students who have completed ten semesters of enrollment. Here’s what you need to know to make sure you get this benefit.

Visit the Online Calendar for more information and check your email for Zoom meeting links.
Fightback Thursday Vigil for Lives Lost and Those Threatened, Aug 13, 3-4:00pm               
PSC Office Closed, Aug 14
Environmental Justice Committee Meeting, Aug 18, 5:30-7:30pm
Delegate Assembly, Aug 20, 6:30pm
PSC Office Closed, Aug 21
Social Safety Net Committee Meeting, Aug 24, 2-4pm
CLT General Membership Meeting, Aug 24, 6-8:30pm
Round the Clock Fight for CUNY and Racial Justice, Aug 26
