<!doctype html>
<html lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="UTF-8">
  <meta name="viewport" content="width=device-width, initial-scale=1">
  
  

  <link href="/css/franklin.css" rel="stylesheet">
  <link href="/css/vela.css" rel="stylesheet">
  <script src="/libs/vela/jquery.min.js"></script>

  <link rel="icon" href="/assets/favicon.png">

  <title>CSI COVID-19 News</title>
</head>
<body>
  <div class="main-nav" id="menu">
    <div class="flex-container">
      <span class="sidebar-brand">
        <h3 style='font-size: 25px'>CSI COVID-19</h3>
      </span>
    </div> <!-- class="flex-container" -->

    <nav class="sidebar-nav">
      <ul class="metismenu"  id="metismenu" >
	<li><a href="/index.html">Home</a></li>
	<li><a href="#news">News</a></li>
	<li><a href="#press">Press</a></li>
	<li><a href="#hot_issues">Hot  issues</a></li>
	<li><a href="#faq">FAQs</a></li>
	<li><a href="#college_council_faculty_senate">CC/FS</a></li>
	<li><a href="#psc">PSC</a></li>
	<li><a href="#college_matters">College matters</a></li>
	<li><a href="#academic_matters">Academic matters</a></li>
	<li><a href="#technology_matters">Technology matters</a></li>
	<li><a href="#cuny">CUNY</a></li>
	<li><a href="#calendar">Calendar</a></li>
      </ul>
    </nav>
  </div> <!-- main nav menu -->

  <main id="panel">
    <div class="toggle-button hamburger hamburger--spin">
      <div class="hamburger-box">
        <div class="hamburger-inner"></div>
      </div>
    </div>
    <h1 class="page title">Facilities Committee Report</h1>
    <hr>


<!-- Content appended here -->
<div class="franklin-content"><h2 id="facilities_committee_report"><a href="#facilities_committee_report" class="header-anchor">Facilities Committee Report</a></h2>
<p>Meeting was held May 19th</p>
<p>The committee discussed many topics. The following is listed in discussion order.</p>
<ul>
<li><p>VP Berte discussed the newly formed Health, Safety, and Reopening Committee. A standing   committee meeting Tuesdays at 9:30</p>
</li>
<li><p>On ventilation, we heard of a study being done. </p>
</li>
<li><p>We heard of a break down on space requirements for classrooms</p>
</li>
<li><p>Jonathan Peters raised the issue of phasing &#40;bringing in more  and more starting  with the easier  such  as research   labs or residence halls&#41;. We heard Mel Pipe is leading a committee that will  meet with the research  committee to discuss this. Both Mel and Dan McCloskey have been invited to the opening up committee.</p>
</li>
<li><p>We heard  that supplies through Grainger and  elswhere were difficult to findi.</p>
</li>
<li><p>We heard that in March an outside company did a deep cleaning. We relayed a  suggestion to post  cleaning  schedules and routines. Valky described the  importance  of such communications  to  the  community.</p>
</li>
<li><p>We heard how crews are working in groups of 2</p>
</li>
<li><p>We heard 2 plumbers have been hired; hot  water is  now  restored  in all  buildings</p>
</li>
<li><p>The issue of brown water  is  known; flushing  will occur  in June and before re-opening</p>
</li>
<li><p>Electricians  are addressing outdoor lighting issues</p>
</li>
<li><p>Kitchen ceiling is being aeddressed</p>
</li>
<li><p>Jonathan Peters shared his concerns about the Auxiliary Services Corp funding, as  they have lost revenues in the several millions.</p>
</li>
<li><p>Several  projects are still ongoing: substation; fire  alarm; 1M roof replacement; sidewalk repair. These have health and safety motivations.</p>
</li>
<li><p>We asked about windows; tthe   inventory if finished. While many open, those that don&#39;t are problematic as parts aren&#39;t available.</p>
</li>
<li><p>We discussed transportation both funding and space concerns. The issue of peak usage is a big problem,</p>
</li>
<li><p>We talked about parking</p>
</li>
<li><p>We talked about preparing facilities for staff usage &#40;library, registrar, ...&#41;</p>
</li>
<li><p>Alan Zimmerman and others expressed frustration with no decision on fall instruction. Jonathan Peters and others are hopeful for partial instruction on campus. &#40;A stovepipiing approach where things that can be opened up are.&#41;  A meeting on Monday of CUNY Chief Operating Officers was held with similar concerns expressed.</p>
</li>
</ul>
<h2 id="agenda_items_that_were_sent_out_for_discussion"><a href="#agenda_items_that_were_sent_out_for_discussion" class="header-anchor">Agenda items that were sent out for discussion</a></h2>
<h3 id="plans_for_future_reopening_of_campus_spaces"><a href="#plans_for_future_reopening_of_campus_spaces" class="header-anchor">plans for future reopening of campus spaces.</a></h3>
<ul>
<li><p>Discuss measures to ensure the safety of staff in the various service areas, where we come in direct contact with students, in preparation of returning to work.</p>
</li>
<li><p>plexiglass barriers  to  be installed where initeraction is required &#40;e.g. at the regisitrars window...&#41;</p>
</li>
<li><p>Customer service for many units of the college, a whole separate issue. </p>
</li>
<li><p>PPE provided for everyone &#40;masks, gloves, sanitizer dispensers&#41;</p>
</li>
<li><p>published schedule of cleanings and deep cleanings</p>
</li>
<li><p>Ensure hot water in bathrooms works; ensure sanitary bathrooms</p>
</li>
<li><p>Food facilities need to be upgraded for safety concerns</p>
</li>
<li><p>ventilation in rooms needs improvement; </p>
</li>
<li><p>windows in classrooms should be functional</p>
</li>
<li><p>podiums in classrooms need to be sanitized between usage</p>
</li>
<li><p>There is a lot going around on professional listserves regarding &#39;materials&#39; that are handed by students &#40;going to their homes&#41; and are returned &#40;e.g., books, laptops&#41; and how to disinfect.</p>
</li>
<li><p>Are expenses  expected  to be reiimbursed through  the   CARES  act? If not, has budget been readjusted?</p>
</li>
<li><p>Discussion  about mixed  hybrid  courses  needs more  technology. Can facilities  staff</p>
</li>
</ul>
<h3 id="transparency_on_reconfiguring_is_requested"><a href="#transparency_on_reconfiguring_is_requested" class="header-anchor">transparency  on reconfiguring is requested</a></h3>
<h3 id="transportation_needs_to_adapt_to_social_distancing"><a href="#transportation_needs_to_adapt_to_social_distancing" class="header-anchor">transportation needs to adapt to social distancing</a></h3>
<ul>
<li><p>parking areas need to adapt to social distancinig</p>
</li>
<li><p>bus  passenger density</p>
</li>
</ul>
<h3 id="the_financial_impacts_of_closing_student_housing"><a href="#the_financial_impacts_of_closing_student_housing" class="header-anchor">The Financial Impacts of closing Student Housing </a></h3>
<ul>
<li><p>Auxiliary Services stands to lose 2/3 of their annual income on house - or about &#36;4,000,000.  </p>
</li>
<li><p>Potential to reopen student housing facility ASAP.</p>
</li>
<li><p>Financial Condition of Auxiliary Services Corporation - Parking and Food Services</p>
</li>
</ul>
<h3 id="more_digital"><a href="#more_digital" class="header-anchor">More  digital</a></h3>
<ul>
<li><p>prioritizing digital when we can- e.g., scanning, calculators, books, videos.  </p>
</li>
<li><p>Concerns for libraries in terms of &#39;lending&#39; that might also affect other departments. </p>
</li>
<li><p>needs for online resources and staffing.</p>
</li>
</ul>
<h3 id="state_has_paused_most_all_construction_how_does_this_impact_csi_sidewalk_project_hardscape_others"><a href="#state_has_paused_most_all_construction_how_does_this_impact_csi_sidewalk_project_hardscape_others" class="header-anchor">State has  paused most all construction. How  does this   impact  CSI? &#40;Sidewalk  project,  hardscape, others&#41;</a></h3>
<div class="page-foot">
  <div> Wash your hands and maintain a "social distance."</div>

  <div class="copyright">
    CSI CC/FS Executive Committees. Last modified: May 19, 2020.
  </div>
  <div>
    Website built with <a href="https://github.com/tlienart/Franklin.jl">Franklin.jl</a>.
  </div>
</div>
</div><!-- CONTENT ENDS HERE -->
  </main> <!-- end of id=main -->
  <script src="/libs/vela/metisMenu.min.js"></script>
  <script src="/libs/vela/slideout.min.js"></script>
  
  
</body>
</html>
