5/8 memo to JJ Chairs

-----


MEMORANDUM

Date:   May 8, 2020

To:       Chairs and Program Directors

From: Provost Yi Li

RE:       Notice of non-reappointment of all one-semester adjuncts

I regret to share bad budgetary news that affects how we will comply with our contractual obligations to one-semester (as opposed to contractual one-year or three-year) adjuncts. On April 25 New York State announced that as a result of the COVID-19 pandemic and budget shortfalls, it will reduce spending by \$10.1 billion from the Executive Budget. Though CUNY is not yet certain of the exact amount its allocation will be reduced, they have asked all college presidents to prepare for a reduction of 10% to college budget allocations. John Jay has modeled our best and worst-case budget scenarios for next year based on this reduced allocation as well as variables such as drops in student enrollment and collection-rate.  We are anticipating, at best a \$21 million budget shortfall, and in the worst-case scenario a \$55 million deficit.  I have faith we will not experience this worst case, but we must do all we can now to act responsibly.

In compliance with the contract, and to be prepared for a worst-case scenario, the college will be issuing non-reappointment letters to all one-semester adjuncts by May 15, 2020, our contractual deadline.  This will allow those people not reappointed to collect unemployment and/or seek other employment if necessary.  Should a department need to hire any of those adjuncts for the fall, because they are needed for courses determined to run, they may, eventually, do so. I caution you not to make promises to non-reappointed adjuncts, however, as these decisions will be made collectively, with the efficiency of the schedule and cost-savings in mind.

In the meantime, I have asked Kathy Killoran and Roblin Meeks to work with chairs and program directors to find courses that are not necessary, or that can be combined, as we try to increase seat efficiency in all programs.  Chairs and Program Directors should look at schedules and prioritize those courses that students will need to make progress in their degree programs to graduate.  Elective courses that are not necessary to progress in degrees should not be scheduled.

This is a challenging time for all of us, and I want you to know I recognize how difficult it will be for you to manage your personnel with these constraints.  Thank you in advance for your partnership in securing the budgetary health of John Jay.

