3/19 HR email

----

As you know, The College of Staten Island is transitioning to telecommuting and/or flexible working arrangements for its staff. Consequently, Human Resources is adjusting our current business practices to provide HR services to faculty and staff who are working remotely.

Hours of Operation
Please be advised that Human Resources will be operating remotely during their regularly scheduled hours, Monday through Friday, 9 a.m.–5 p.m.  We will have limited on campus office hours for matters that cannot be handled through email on Tuesday, Wednesday, and Thursday from 10am-12pm.

Modified Timesheet Submission Policy
We encourage all full-time administrative and non teaching instructional employees to continue using the standard online timesheet if able to do so. Please email the signed timesheet to your supervisor for approval and signature. Supervisors may sign their employee timesheets as in normal course of business and scan them to Hrtimekeeping@csi.cuny.edu

If you are unable to access the online timesheet, you may send an email detailing any time you took off such as sick, annual or an unscheduled day to your supervisor. Your supervisor should review your email for accuracy and forward the email to Hrtimekeeping@csi.cuny.edu indicating their approval in the body of the email.

Paper Paychecks
For the time being, for those who do not have direct deposit, all paper will be mailed to your home address on file in CUNYfirst. Thus, please log-in to CUNYFirst Employee Self Service to confirm that your home address is correct. To do so, please log on to CUNYFirst, click on Main Menu, select Self-Service, and select Personal Information to review your current information and update it accordingly. In order to avoid delays in the delivery of your paychecks, please consider enrolling in direct deposit.  You may obtain a copy of the direct deposit form and direct deposit form addendum on the Human Resources website. The direct deposit forms can be emailed to HRbenefitpay@csi.cuny.edu

HR staff will be available via email during regular business hours and will be checking our voicemail throughout the workday. You may also reach out to us through the following mailboxes:

HRbenefitpay@csi.cuny.edu

Benefits, pension, tax deferred annuities,  retirement, leaves of absences, workers compensation and payroll related questions

HRadjuncts@csi.cuny.edu

Adjunct reappointment spreadsheets, PAFs, step increases, adjunct payroll related questions, summer chair spreadsheets and absence reports
HRtimekeeping@csi.cuny.edu

Full time timesheets, doctor notes, and time and leave inquires.
HRrecruitment@csi.cuny.edu

College Assistant reappointments, reappointment letters, performance evaluations, job searches, job postings, onboarding.
Humanresources@csi.cuny.edu

General questions

Thank you for your commitment and your understanding during these difficult times.

Human Resources
