4/13 email

----


Dear Faculty and Staff:

The Campus Activities Board (CAB) is the programming board that allocates an earmarked portion of the student activity fee for social, cultural, educational, and community service programs.  CAB is beginning the process of identifying programs for Fall 2020.  If your department is planning a program for students and believes that CAB may be interested in co-sponsoring the event we encourage you to submit a request for funding.  We recognize that our plans for Fall 2020 are uncertain at this time.  In order to facilitate the budget approval and expenditure process, CAB feels it is valuable and important to move forward as usual to support funding requests.  The board understands that event dates may need to be changed and will work with departments if that is necessary.  
 
Community Proposals for Fall 2020 are due to CAB by Monday, May 4, 2020 before 11:30pm.  
The application is web-based and can be found on CSI CONNECT at https://csi.campuslabs.com/engage/submitter/form/start/397676.  
Information about the Community Proposal process can be found at https://csi.campuslabs.com/engage/organization/CSICAB/documents/view/1661651​.
 
CAB sets aside a limited amount of monies per semester for community proposal funding.  CAB will not approve funds in an amount more than \$1,500.00 for any specific proposal.  In addition, an individual department may submit as many events as they choose, but CAB will only fund one event per department. 
 
In making decisions regarding funding, CAB considers the following questions:
​  Does CAB already do this? Does this fill a need for students that CAB is currently not providing?
  Are CSI students the target audience? If not, who is the target audience?
  What is the approximate number of students in the target audience? Is it within the fiscal guidelines?
 Will the proposed program interest CSI students?
​  Does this program have a history with CAB? Has the event been done well in the past?
  What part of the CAB mission does this meet? (Social, Cultural, Educational, Service)
CAB has funded numerous campus programs including Global Kitchen events with the Center for Global Engagement, Tournees Film Festival with the Media Culture Department; the Spring Festival with the School of Education and Majors and Minors Week with the Center for Advising and Academic Success. Funding has also been provided for programs to strengthen the community and promote pride in CSI such as CSI’s Got Talent and Honors Convocation.
 
CAB will review the Fall 2020 proposals that are received by the Monday, May 4, 2020  before 11:30pm at their May 12, 2020 virtual meeting.  Please note that since CAB funding requests must be approved by Student Government and the CSI Association, approvals may not be finalized until mid to late summer. 
 
Before submitting your proposal, please log in to CSI Connect using your CSI email credentials (firstname.lastname@csi.cuny.edu and your FLAS password). This will allow you to save the form as you complete it, as well as print and access the form for your records after submission.  You can access the form via your profile, just click your name (top right corner of screen) and go to Activity. If you have questions about how to create a profile or how to access your submission, please contact Debi Kee at 718.982.3268.  Please make sure you click through all forms and click submit.  Upon submission your form status should switch from "in progress" to "pending".  It is strongly recommended that you email Debi Kee at debi.kee@csi.cuny.edu to confirm the receipt of your proposal.  
 
Thank you in advance for helping to make CSI a place where things happen.  We look forward to receiving your program ideas. 
 
If you have questions about the proposal process, or need assistance with your application, please contact Debi Kee at debi.kee@csi.cuny.edu.  
 
Joseph Weisberg
CAB Vice Chairperson
 
Debi Kee
Associate Director of Student Life/Activities
debi.kee@csi.cuny.edu​
 
