4/20 email

----


Dear Faculty, Staff, and Students,
 
One of the highlights of the Spring semester at CSI has always been the Undergraduate Conference on Research, Scholarship, and Performance -- for the past 18 years the Center for the Arts has been filled with the excitement of students and mentors sharing the extraordinary projects they have worked on together.  While we cannot have an “in-person” conference this year, we’re delighted to let you know that arrangements for a virtual/online conference have moved ahead.
 
The virtual conference will take place on Thursday, April 30th 2020, the original conference date, and will run from approximately 12:30 – 4:30 pm with most presentations scheduled between 1:00pm and 4:00pm.  There will be five tracks of presentations that will run concurrently on Zoom Webinar, with each student scheduled to give a live 3-4 minute summary, with 4 minutes for questions from attendees via the chat feature.  There will be links for you to view posters in advance and to join sessions on the day of the conference.
 
Bear with us as we finalize the schedule of presentations and update the website where you’ll be able to find the schedule, program book, and links to the posters in advance of the conference - - we have approximately 100 submissions.
 
April 30th is fast approaching and we hope you can attend our first virtual Undergraduate conference and continue the tradition of celebrating the work of our students and their mentors.
 
Students, faculty, and staff are all invited to join the conference - save the date now! 
 
 
Mel Pipe
Associate Provost for Graduate Studies, Research,
and Institutional Effectiveness
