4/27 email

----

Dear Deans, Chairs and Coordinators,
As mentioned below, EVC Cruz sent an email with links to the CR/NC policy and FAQ to students on Friday evening (see attached message).  His message indicates that the College will follow up with another message to students by tomorrow.  In the follow up message, students will be instructed to reach out to their academic and financial aid advisor if considering this option, along with instructions on how to do so.  If any member of the college community needs guidance, please direct them to the email address CNCSpring@csi.cuny.edu which will be answered promptly by representatives in Financial Aid, CAAS and the Registrar’s Office. 
Again, please share this email with your faculty. 
Thank you in advance,
More to come,
Kerri
 
 
From: Kerri Gerson 
Sent: Thursday, April 23, 2020 2:03 PM
To:
Subject: Registrar Update: CR/NC FAQs and More - 4.23.2020
 
Dear Deans, Chairs, and Coordinators,
 
I hope this email finds you safe and well.
 
Below you will find the link to the Credit/No Credit FAQ for spring 2020.  Please share this email with your faculty, as tomorrow, students will be receiving a communication from Central regarding this policy.  As you may know, students will be able to select this option to replace applicable grades via CUNYfirst. 
 
 https://www.cuny.edu/coronavirus/credit-no-credit-policy/faq/
 
Understandably, your students will have questions that you may find difficult to answer.  As mentioned in an earlier communication, please direct them to send an email to CNCSpring@csi.cuny.edu so that Financial Aid, CAAS, and Registrar representatives can respond to specific questions related to their financial situation and program of study.
 
As a reminder, grades are due no later than 72 hours after final exams are administered.  Grade entry in CUNYfirst will close on 5/28/2020.  During these difficult times, and to ensure students can take advantage of the CR/NC flexibility, I cannot stress the importance of this deadline enough.  As you know, we are not in the office to help those who have encountered technical difficulties or who have missed the deadline.  We can assist best with questions if CUNYfirst is still open and available for grade entry.  Consistent with previous terms, a grade memo will be sent out when we are closer to the end of the term.
 
Finally, I would like to remind you of the resources available to assist online:
 
FOR STUDENTS:
Online Registration Request - This is a link for students to use to ask for registration help where they may formerly have had to come into the office (for things like adding an extra course to a session in summer, or when they believe there is a requisite error).
We also created a Blackboard site to make important announcements, answer questions, and hold discussions.
 
FOR FACULTY/Department Administrative Designees:  
·        Course Substitution Form – This form is used by departments to approve a course substitution to satisfy a major or minor requirement for a student.   
·        Permission to Repeat a Previously Passed Course - Students are now required to receive permission to enroll for a previously passed course, which then must be processed in CUNYfirst by the Office of the Registrar. This form is to be used when you are granting that permission. 
·        Registrar Request Form - This is for departmental use when an exception is approved that must be processed in CUNYfirst by the Office of the Registrar (for example: credit overload, extra course in summer, time conflict override, etc). 
·        Faculty Resource Page -  bookmark this page for access to all of the above forms, and to find the academic calendars, final exam schedule, and our office contact list easily.
 
 
If you have any questions at all, please do not hesitate to contact either me or Kara Bisceglie at any time.
 
Be well,
Kerri
 
 
Kerri Gerson
Registrar
College of Staten Island, City University of New York
Office of the Registrar
2800 Victory Boulevard
Staten Island, NY 10314
P: 718-982-2123; F: 718-982-2585
Kerri.gerson@csi.cuny.edu
www.csi.cuny.edu/registrar
 
 
 
