3/12  email

----


We are writing to provide an update and reminders in the below message and the attached FAQs on some issues related to staffing, flexible hours, what to do if a student or employee presents as sick, and other HR specific matters during this stressful time. As the President has noted, the health and wellness of our Campus community is our highest priority and this will be a guiding principle as the College moves to remote delivery of classes. Though students will not be coming to campus for in-person instruction, the Campus is open and the continued need for staff presence on campus, will in many cases be greater as we continue to provide routine support and services to our students.

We are sensitive to concerns our staff have expressed with travelling on subways or buses during rush hour or being in areas where there are large crowds.  Therefore, while employees are still expected to report to work on campus during this time, staff who utilize public transportation - after consultation with, and approval from, their managers - may work flexible hours to allow them to commute via public transportation to and from work during non-peak hours.  If  you have concerns about reporting to work due to a compromised immune system or another issue, please review the attached FAQs. If you have further questions please feel free to contact us in order to determine a viable option.

We encourage employees to update their contact information, including cell phone numbers, addresses and emergency contacts in CUNYFirst in case of an emergency.  To do so, please log on to CUNYFirst, click on Main Menu, select Self-Service, and select Personal Information to review your current information and update it accordingly.

Additionally, employees who do not have direct deposit are encouraged to sign up for the service so that they receive their paychecks in a timely manner, in the event of a campus shutdown that would interfere with the distribution of checks. Please contact HR to learn more about how to sign up for direct deposit if you haven't done so already.

Lastly as a reminder, for additional support, faculty and staff experiencing anxiety related to COVID-19 should contact Deer Oaks, our Employee Assistance Program (EAP), at 855.492.3633.  Counselors are available 24/7 to assist you.

Thank you for your patience and cooperation as we navigate our way through this situation.  Please feel free to contact us should you have any questions or need additional assistance.


Stay well,


Jessica Collura
Director of Employee Relations & Labor Designee
Human Resources
(718)982-2379
